1/10/2024: code repositories


ls -la
show hidden directories. Use to see .git

-git checkout to go back to a previous version
-you can edit/commit changes directly from github
-git fetch: see latest info about changes on git
-git status: see the differences b/t clone and see if we’re missing a commit. 
Also tells us if we added stuff but haven’t yet committed.
-git -am “message” : Adds all new files and then commits with the message

print “more text” >> hello.txt means concatenate to the file
print “more text” > hello.txt means overwrite
git diff HEAD HEAD~1 //compare version with previous version
git log
Merge Conflicts


Configure your own commands:
git config --global -l
alias.s=status
alias.l=log --all --graph --decorate --oneline --pretty=format:'%C(bold 
red)%d%Creset %cr %C(bold yellow)%h%Creset - %C(green)%an%Creset %s'
pull.rebase=true
core.editor=code



-readme.md: Use to describe modifications and alterations you make to 
startup.
-notes.md: track what you have learned. will be used for the midterm/final

Fork: Create a copy of a github repository. Maintains a link to the original 
repository so you can pull down updates.

**1/19: EC2**
http://52.87.41.204/
ssh -i cs260/[filename] ubuntu@52.87.41.204
ssh -i cs260/[filename] ubuntu@tastetrove.click

**1/22: Caddy, HTTPS, TLS, and certificates**
Caddy
web service that listens for HTTP requests. Once received, it either gives the requested static files or routes the files to another web service (gateway/reverse proxy)
creation/rotation of web certificates
serves all static HTML/CSS/JS

FILES
Configuration file: ~/Caddyfile: for routing HTTP requests, determine location of HTML files,etc. Don’t change.
HTML files: ~/public_html: directory of files that Caddy servers up when requests are made
ex: request http://yourdomainname/index.html looks for index.html in public_html

HTTPS, TLS, and web certificates
HTTPS: HTTP with negotiated secure connection that happens before data is exchanged. All data encrypted w TLS protocol (negotiate shared secret and use to encrypt)
negotiation includes exchange of web certificate that identifies the dns of the server creating the server connection. Browser makes sure that certificate name matches domain name in URL.

Web Certificates
generated by 3rd party using private key encryption
once you have certificate for domain name, browser can validate
Let’s encrypt lets you make a web certificate for free.
Caddy: uses lets encrypt to generate a web certificate every time a HTTPS request is made for a domain that Caddy doesn’t have a certificate for. It then asks lets encrypt to verify that the domain is owned by the requester

curl -v -s https://byu.edu > /dev/null //see the negotiation that happens

EDIT Caddy configuration:
cd ~
vi Caddyfile
i //then make changes
esc
:wq + enter
sudo service caddy restart

**1/24: The Console, editors**
pwd: tells you what directory you are in
ls -la: see all files including hidden ones
echo - Output the parameters of the command
cd - Change directory
mkdir - Make directory
rmdir - Remove directory
rm - Remove file(s)
mv - Move file(s)
cp - Copy files
ls - List files
curl - Command line client URL browser
grep - Regular expression search
find - Find files
top - View running processes with CPU and memory usage
df - View disk statistics
cat - Output the contents of a file
less - Interactively output the contents of a file
wc - Count the words in a file
ps - View the currently running processes
kill - Kill a currently running process
sudo - Execute a command as a super user (admin)
ssh - Create a secure shell on a remote computer
scp - Securely copy files to a remote computer
history - Show the history of commands
ping - Check if a website is up
tracert - Trace the connections to a website
dig - Show the DNS information for a domain
man - Look up a command in the manual


|: Take output from command on left and pass as input to command on right
>: redirect output to file, overwrite file if exists
>>: redirect output to file, append to if exists.

Editors
VScode: editor for daily coding 
VI: when you are shelled into your production environment and need a simple, but powerful, console based editor for quickly editing text files.

VI
To use: change directory to one with some code to edit.
vi index.html
command mode: default. 
To edit, type i to enter insert mode,
esc to escape,  :w to save, :q to quit
https://vim.rtorr.com/

VIM commands
:h -> help
i -> insert mode. Use ESC to exit
u -> undo
ctrl-r -> redo
gg -> go to beginning of file
G -> go to end of file
/ -> search for patterns
n -> next search match
N -> previous search match
v -> visually select text
y -> yank/copy selected text to clipboard
p -> past clipboard
ctrl -wv -> split window vertically
crl -ww -> toggle windows
ctrl -wq -> close current window
:e -> open file
:w -> write file (save)
:q -> quit, :q! to not save






